---
title: Payments in Outlook partner dashboard guide
description: The Outlook partner dashboard for payments is the single place to register your payments in Outlook service.
author: jasonjoh
ms.topic: article
ms.technology: o365-connectors
ms.date: 05/07/2018
ms.author: jasonjoh
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Register your service with the partner dashboard for payments in Outlook

The <a href="https://outlook.office.com/connectors/opay/partnerportal/" target="_blank">partner dashboard for payments in Outlook</a> is the single place to register your payments in Outlook service. Registering involves two steps: on-boarding to [Microsoft Pay](https://www.microsoft.com/payments), and then on-boarding to payments in Outlook. Both steps are handled in the dashboard.

## On-boarding to Microsoft Pay

The first step is to on-board to Microsoft Pay. This identifies you as a merchant, and links to your payment service provider accounts such as Stripe or PayPal.

1. Browse to the [dashboard](https://outlook.office.com/connectors/opay/partnerportal/). Sign in with an account from your Office 365 subscription.
1. You will be redirected to the consent page. Please read through the terms and conditions and choose **Accept** to proceed.
1. Choose **Add/Update Microsoft Pay merchant profile** to open a new pop-up window to the Microsoft Pay portal.
1. Choose **Add Stripe account**. Login to your Stripe account and authorize access. You should be redirected to the Microsoft Pay Merchant Management window and see **Account status: Active** next to the Stripe option. Close the Microsoft Pay pop-up window or choose the **Go back to Outlook** link on the top right.

Once you've linked at least one payment service provider account, you're ready to move on to the next step.

## Register your payment webhooks

1. Enter the URLs for your payment request and payment complete webhooks and choose **Register/Update**.
1. Copy the **Message Card Payload** generated by the dashboard. You can use that to send a test payment request to your Microsoft account.

## Next steps

Now that you're service is registered, you can test your webhooks by sending the message card payload generated by the dashboard to your Microsoft Account. You can send the payload in a number of different ways.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For testing purposes, you should send the payload from your Microsoft Account to yourself. The ability to send actionable messages to other users requires registration with the [actionable email developer dashboard](../actionable-messages/email-dev-dashboard.md).

- Use the [Message Card Playground](https://messagecardplayground.azurewebsites.net/)
- [Send via the Microsoft Graph](https://github.com/jasonjoh/send-actionable-message): A sample console app written in C# that sends an actionable message using the [Microsoft Graph](/graph/outlook-create-send-messages).
- [Send via SMTP](https://gist.github.com/jasonjoh/3ec367594c3fa662ee983a617bdc7deb): A sample Python script that sends an actionable message using the Office 365 SMTP server.
