---
title: Outlook REST APIs terms of use | Microsoft Docs
description: Review the terms of use for the Outlook REST APIs.
author: jasonjoh

ms.topic: article
ms.technology: graph
ms.devlang: rest-api
ms.date: 05/31/2017
ms.author: jasonjoh
---

# Outlook REST APIs terms of use

Thank you for choosing to develop with the application programming interfaces ("APIs") available on this site ("Dev Center"). This agreement ("Agreement") is a contract between you ("you" or "your"), and Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft," "we," "our," or "us") and governs your use of the APIs. By using, downloading, or accessing any part of the APIs, you expressly agree to be bound by this Agreement. If you disagree with any of these terms, we do not grant you a license to use the APIs and you do not have our authorization to use the APIs. These terms may be updated from time to time. If you do not agree to any changes to this Agreement, you must stop using the APIs before the changes become effective. Otherwise, the new terms will apply to you.

> [!NOTE]
> Please note that we do not provide warranties for the APIs. This Agreement also limits our liability. These terms are in Sections 11 and 12, and we ask that you read them carefully.

1. **License to use the APIs.**  Subject to your compliance with this Agreement, Microsoft hereby grants you a non-exclusive, royalty-free, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, revocable limited license to install, use, and make calls to the APIs to develop or host an application, website or other service (including, add-ins and connectors described in the Dev Center) (collectively, "your service") that's designed to connect with Outlook, Outlook.com, Office 365 Groups, Microsoft Teams, or other Microsoft products or services (together, "Microsoft Service"), and through such connection, enable data and other content to be shared between your service and a Microsoft Service.

1. **Limitations and Conditions on use of the APIs.** Your service and your access to, and use of, any of aspect of the APIs, are subject to any limits we set out in the Dev Center and must comply with: (a) all applicable Microsoft policies and guidelines (including, any API call volume limitations, security policies, and privacy policies), technical requirements and documentation; and (b) all applicable laws (including, the applicable laws of your jurisdiction relating to online conduct, acceptable content, data collection, privacy, and the export of data to the United States or your country of residence). We reserve the right, in our sole discretion, to impose limits (including, limiting the number of API requests that you make or the number of users you may serve) or restrict your access to all or parts the APIs without notice or liability to you. We may, in our discretion, change, suspend or discontinue any aspect of the APIs at any time (including, the availability of any APIs) and may terminate your use of the APIs at any time with or without notice to you. You agree that we may monitor your use of the APIs to ensure quality, improve Microsoft Services, and verify your compliance with the terms of this Agreement. This monitoring may include Microsoft accessing or using your service to identify potential security issues that may impact Microsoft or any of our users. You agree that you will not interfere with this monitoring and that we may use any technical means to overcome such interference. We may change, suspend, or discontinue your use of the APIs at any time, if in our sole and absolute discretion, you or your service violate any of the terms of this Agreement.

1. **Prohibitions.**  When using the APIs, you will not (or allow those acting on your behalf to):
    1. interfere or attempt to interfere with the proper working of the APIs or the servers or networks providing the APIs;
    1. take any action that imposes a disproportionately large burden on our infrastructure, including the APIs and Microsoft Services, as determined by us in our discretion;
    1. engage in any unlawful practices;
    1. cause Microsoft or its users to violate the applicable terms of service or privacy statement between Microsoft and its users;
    1. use the APIs for any application that constitutes, promotes, or is used in connection with spyware, adware, or other malicious programs or code;
    1. use the APIs in any manner or for any purpose that violates any law or regulation, any right of any person, including, but not limited to, intellectual property rights, rights of privacy, or rights of personality; 
    1. sell, lease, or sublicense the APIs or access thereto or derive revenues from the use or provision of the APIs, whether for direct commercial or monetary gain or otherwise.

    We do not intend use of the APIs to create obligations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended ("HIPAA"), and make no representations that the Microsoft Service connected with your service through the APIs satisfies HIPAA requirements, unless we specify otherwise. If you are (or become) a "covered entity" or "business associate" as defined in HIPAA, you will not use the APIs for any purpose or in any manner involving transmitting protected health information to us unless you have received prior written consent to such use from us.

1. **Your Content; License to Display Your Content and Marks.** Except for the material that we license to you in this Agreement, we don't claim ownership of the content you provide to us. We also don't control, verify, or endorse the content that you and others make available through your service. You understand that we will need, and you hereby grant to us, a worldwide, non-exclusive right and license, to use, modify, adapt, reproduce, distribute, and display your business name, marks, logos, content, and other data from your service made available to us through the APIs, including, within a connector card message, the catalog of available add-ins and Office 365 Connectors through our app store (in which case the applicable app store terms apply in addition to this Agreement) or from within the applicable Microsoft Service, and promote the availability of your service in a Microsoft blog, social media, and other reasonable means (including, a contextual recommendation to a joint end user in a Microsoft Service displayed in a message sent by you to such joint end user). If you share content on or with any Microsoft Service in a way that infringes others' copyrights, other intellectual property rights, or privacy rights, you are in breach this Agreement. You represent and warrant that you have all the rights necessary for you to grant the rights in this Section 4, that the use of the content doesn't violate any law, and that any data you provide us through your registration for the APIs will be accurate and up to date. We won't pay you for your content. We may refuse to promote or publish your content and may remove your content or your service from a Microsoft Service for any or no reason.

1. **Other Requirements.**
    1. **Connect to Office 365 Button.** If you embed a "Connect to Office 365" or any other Microsoft-branded button ("Button") on your service: (a) you must use the then-current version of the Button icon included in the then-current APIs' guidelines and documentation available in the Dev Center ("API Materials"), which may be updated by us from time to time; (b) you have a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free, revocable license during the term of this Agreement to use, reproduce, distribute and display the Button, so long as your use is strictly in accordance with our current trademark usage guidelines (found here, and which may be updated from time to time) and the API Materials; and (c) when a user clicks such Button, the user must be redirected to an Office 365 login page, as shown in the API Materials. Your use of the Button and other Microsoft branding allowed in this Agreement (including any goodwill associated therewith) will inure to the benefit of Microsoft. Except as expressly permitted in this Section 5, this Agreement does not grant you any rights in any Microsoft logo, trademark, or service mark, and you will not use any logo, trademark, or service mark of Microsoft for any purpose without our prior written approval. You will not claim or imply any sponsorship or endorsement of your service by Microsoft. Notwithstanding anything else herein to the contrary, we reserve the right to further limit the license granted in this Section 5 to the extent that your use or display may negatively impact the goodwill or reputation associated with Microsoft.
    1. **Security.** You will employ not less than industry standard physical and environmental security measures to prevent unauthorized access to, and will otherwise physically and electronically protect, your service and content accessed through the APIs. You will use reasonable efforts to protect user information collected by your service, including, personally identifiable information, from unauthorized access or use, and as required by applicable law, will promptly report to your users any unauthorized access or use.

1. **Reservation of Rights.**  Except for the licenses expressly granted in this Agreement, Microsoft retains all right, title, and interest in and to the APIs, Microsoft Services, its marks (including, the marks used in connection with the Button), and all intellectual property rights in any of these.

1. **Term and Termination.** This Agreement is effective on your first use or access of the APIs and will continue until the earlier of: (a) the APIs are no longer made available by us; (b) you cease to use the APIs; and (c) termination of this Agreement. This Agreement may be terminated immediately for any reason or no reason and without notice to you by Microsoft. Your rights to use the APIs terminate automatically if: (i) you violate any term of this Agreement; (ii) we publicly post a written termination on the Outlook Dev Center or another Microsoft website; (iii) we send you a written notice of termination in accordance with this Agreement; or (iv) we disable your access to the APIs. If this Agreement terminates, all rights granted to you by this Agreement will automatically terminate and you will cease to have any rights to use the APIs and content accessed therefrom. We will not be liable to you for damages resulting solely from terminating this Agreement according to its terms. All terms of this Agreement that, by their nature, are intended to survive termination will survive (including, Sections 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20 and 21).

1. **Confidentiality.**  You may be given access to certain non-public information, software, and specifications relating to the APIs ("Confidential Information"), which is confidential and proprietary to Microsoft. You may use Confidential Information only as necessary in exercising your rights granted under this Agreement. You may not disclose any Confidential Information to any third party without Microsoft's prior written consent. You agree that you will protect any Confidential Information from unauthorized use, access, or disclosure in the same manner that you would use to protect your own confidential and proprietary information, but in no event using less than a reasonable standard of care.

1. **Nonexclusive; independent development.**  This Agreement is nonexclusive and does not restrict Microsoft from directly or indirectly acquiring, licensing, developing, making, or distributing products, services, or technologies performing the same or similar functions as, or otherwise competitive with, your services.

1. **Terms of Service and Privacy.**  You are solely responsible to users of your service and you, not us, will license the right to install and use your service to users of your service. You must have an agreement with users of your service that gives such users notice of, and requires their consent to, use of the content that you will retrieve from such users and provide to us through the API. You are further responsible for informing end users of your privacy policy. You must maintain a privacy policy, and it must (a) comply with applicable laws and regulations, (b) inform users of the information accessed, collected or transmitted by your service and how that information is used, stored, secured and disclosed, and (c) describe the controls that users have over the use and sharing of their information, and how they may access their information.

1. **Feedback.**  If you provide us any feedback regarding the APIs or your experience using the APIs, you provide us, without charge, a perpetual, transferable, sublicenseable, royalty-free, and worldwide right to use, share and commercialize your feedback in any way and for any purpose, including, the right to make, use, modify, distribute, grant copyright and trade secret sublicense rights to, and otherwise commercialize such feedback as a part of any Microsoft Service. You also give to third parties, without charge, any patent rights needed for their products, technologies and services to use or interface with any specific parts of a Microsoft software or service that includes the feedback. You will not give feedback that is subject to an Excluded License (defined as follows) or a license that requires us to license our software or documentation to third parties because we include your feedback in them. "Excluded License" means any license that requires as a condition of use, modification, or distribution of software or other material subject to the Excluded License, that such software or material (or other software or material combined or distributed with it) be disclosed or distributed in source code form, licensed for the purpose of making derivative works, or redistributable at no charge.

1. **Indemnification.** You will reimburse, indemnify and hold Microsoft and our affiliates, directors, officers, employees and agents (together, "Microsoft Parties") harmless from and against any loss, liability, and expense (including, reasonable attorneys' fees) suffered or incurred by reason of any claims, proceedings or suits based on or arising out of: (a) any breach (or alleged breach) by you of any term, representation, warranty or other obligation in this Agreement; (b) your service; or (c) any alleged infringement or violation of any third party's rights by any marks, logos, materials or other content made available to us by you through your use of the APIs or that we may access through use of your APIs. You will be solely responsible for defending any such claims using mutually-agreed counsel, subject to our right to participate with counsel we select, and you will not publicize any claim or agree to any settlement that imposes any obligation or liability on Microsoft or the Microsoft Parties without our prior written consent, such consent provided by us in our sole discretion.

1. **WE MAKE NO WARRANTIES.** MICROSOFT, ALL MICROSOFT PARTIES, AND OUR DISTRIBUTORS AND SUPPLIERS, MAKE NO WARRANTIES (EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY), GUARANTEES OR CONDITIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE APIS OR YOUR USE OF THE APIS, INCLUDING, FOR MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, WORKMANLIKE EFFORT, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT USE OF THE APIS IS AT YOUR OWN RISK AND THAT WE PROVIDE THE APIS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS "WITH ALL FAULTS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THIS AGREEMENT PROVIDES NO ADDITIONAL WARRANTIES OR GUARANTEES IN REGARD TO THE MICROSOFT SERVICES; WITH ANY SUCH WARRANTIES OR GUARANTEES ADDRESSED UNDER THE TERMS APPLICABLE TO SUCH MICROSOFT SERVICES. WE DON'T GUARANTEE THE ACCURACY OR TIMELINESS OF INFORMATION AVAILABLE FROM THE APIS OR MICROSOFT SERVICES. YOU MAY HAVE CERTAIN RIGHTS UNDER YOUR LOCAL LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT IS INTENDED TO AFFECT THOSE RIGHTS, IF THEY ARE APPLICABLE. YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT COMPUTER AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS ARE NOT FAULT-FREE AND OCCASIONAL PERIODS OF DOWNTIME OCCUR. WE DON'T GUARANTEE THE APIS WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, TIMELY, SECURE, OR ERROR-FREE OR THAT CONTENT LOSS WON'T OCCUR. WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, WE MAY CONDUCT MAINTENANCE ON THE APIS AT ANY TIME, WITH OR WITHOUT NOTICE.

1. **LIABILITY LIMITATION.**  IN NO EVENT WILL MICROSOFT, ALL MICROSOFT PARTIES, AND OUR DISTRIBUTORS AND SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY END USERS FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR FOR ANY LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO USE, DATA, BUSINESS, GOODWILL OR PROFITS ARISING OUT OF OR YOUR USE OF THE APIS, BUTTON, API MATERIALS, AND OTHER CONTENT ACCESSED THROUGH THE DEV CENTER. THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS, EXCLUSIONS AND DISCLAIMERS SHALL APPLY REGARDLESS OF WHETHER SUCH LIABILITY ARISES FROM ANY CLAIM BASED UPON CONTRACT, WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT THE PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSS OR DAMAGE. INSOFAR AS APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS ANY LIMITATION ON LIABILITY HEREIN, THE PARTIES AGREE THAT SUCH LIMITATION WILL BE AUTOMATICALLY MODIFIED, BUT ONLY TO THE EXTENT SO AS TO MAKE THE LIMITATION COMPLIANT WITH APPLICABLE LAW. THE PARTIES AGREE THAT THE LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITIES SET FORTH HEREIN ARE AGREED ALLOCATIONS OF RISK AND SUCH LIMITATIONS WILL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING THE FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY.

1. **Limitation on Claims.** Any claim related to this Agreement, or the APIs may not be brought unless brought within one year. The one-year period begins on the date when the claim first could be filed. If it is not filed, then that claim is permanently barred. This applies to you and your permitted successors. It also applies to us and our successors and assigns.

1. **Assignment.** We may assign this Agreement, in whole or in part, at any time with or without notice to you. You may not assign this Agreement, or any part of it, to any other person without our prior written consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld. Any attempt by you to do so is void. You may not transfer to anyone else, either temporarily or permanently, any rights to use the APIs.

1. **Governing Law and Jurisdiction.** The laws of the State of Washington govern this Agreement without regard to conflict of law provisions. All other claims, including claims regarding consumer protection laws, unfair competition laws and in tort, will be subject to the laws of your state of residence in the United States, or if you live outside the United States, the laws of the country to which we direct your service. The parties irrevocably consent to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state or federal courts in King County, Washington, USA for all disputes arising out of or relating to this Agreement.

1. **Export.**  The APIs are subject to United States export laws and regulations. You must comply with all domestic and international export laws and regulations that apply to the APIs. These laws include restrictions on destinations, end users, and end use. Additional information is provided here (as it may be updated from time to time).

1. **Notices.**  This Agreement is in electronic form, and we have the right to send you certain additional information. There may be other information regarding the APIs that the law requires us to send you. We may send you this information in electronic form. You have the right to withdraw this consent but, if you do, we may cancel your use of the APIs. As long as you can access and use the APIs, you will ensure that you have the necessary software and hardware to receive these notices. If you do not consent to receive any notices electronically, you must stop using the APIs. You will be deemed to have received a notice from us on the date that we electronically send it or post it.

1. **Interpreting this Agreement.**  All parts of this Agreement apply to the maximum extent permitted by law. If any term of this Agreement is unenforceable, the remainder will be fully enforced to effect the parties' intent. Unless stated or context requires otherwise: (a) all internal references are to this Agreement and its parties; (b) "days" means "calendar days"; (c) "may" means that the applicable party has a right, but not an accompanying duty; and (d) a party's choices under this Agreement are in its sole discretion, subject to any applicable duties of good faith. Lists of examples following "including" or "e.g." are not exhaustive (i.e., are interpreted to include "without limitation"), unless qualified by words such as "only" or "solely." This Agreement will be interpreted according to the plain meaning of its terms without any presumption that it should be construed to favor either party. The section titles in this Agreement do not limit the other terms of this Agreement.

1. **Miscellaneous.**  If you offer a product that competes with a Microsoft Service, you agree to waive in the terms governing use of your application programming interfaces or other software that allows a Microsoft Service to integrate with any of your products ("your API terms") any restrictions on data collected from your competing product (including, restrictions on data use, processing, and storage). If you do not intend to waive any such restrictions in your API terms, you are not allowed to access or use the APIs. The parties are independent contractors under this Agreement and do not intend to form any other relationship. You understand and acknowledge that Microsoft is not certifying, nor endorsing, and has no obligation to certify or endorse, any aspect of your service. You are solely responsible, and Microsoft specifically disclaims all liability, for (a) your service, and (b) any content displayed in or through, or accessed via or relating to, your service. You shall not issue a press release or other written public statement regarding this Agreement without our written approval. Only written waivers will be effective. Each party will pay its own costs to perform (except where expressly stated otherwise). You will maintain commercially reasonable levels of insurance with commercially reasonable insurers to enable you to comply with your obligations under this Agreement. In relation to this Agreement, you will comply with all applicable laws and other requirements of governments having jurisdiction. All rights and remedies under this Agreement are cumulative. Except as otherwise expressly stated in this Agreement, this Agreement is the parties' entire agreement on this subject and merges and supersedes all related prior and contemporaneous communications and agreements.